.TH LOOM 1 "May 2026" "loom 0.1.0a1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
loom \- Smart internet research MCP client for web scraping, searching, and LLM-powered analysis
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B loom
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.B COMMAND
[\fIARGS\fR]

.B loom
\fBserve\fR [OPTIONS]

.B loom
\fBfetch\fR \fIURL\fR [OPTIONS]

.B loom
\fBspider\fR \fIURLSFILE\fR [OPTIONS]

.B loom
\fBmarkdown\fR \fIURL\fR [OPTIONS]

.B loom
\fBsearch\fR \fIQUERY\fR [OPTIONS]

.B loom
\fBdeep\fR \fIQUERY\fR [OPTIONS]

.B loom
\fBgithub\fR \fIKIND\fR \fIQUERY\fR [OPTIONS]

.B loom
\fBcamoufox\fR \fIURL\fR [OPTIONS]

.B loom
\fBbotasaurus\fR \fIURL\fR [OPTIONS]

.B loom
\fBsession\fR \fIACTION\fR [\fINAME\fR] [OPTIONS]

.B loom
\fBconfig\fR \fIACTION\fR [\fIKEY\fR] [\fIVALUE\fR] [OPTIONS]

.B loom
\fBcache\fR \fIACTION\fR [OPTIONS]

.B loom
\fBllm\fR \fIACTION\fR [\fITEXT\fR] [OPTIONS]

.B loom
\fBtools\fR [OPTIONS]

.B loom
\fBversion\fR

.B loom
\fBcompletions\fR \fIACTION\fR

.B loom
\fBrepl\fR [OPTIONS]

.B loom
\fBjourney-test\fR [OPTIONS]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B loom
is a powerful command-line client for the Loom MCP (Model Context Protocol) research server.
It provides unified access to 220+ research and attack tools including web scraping, multi-provider search,
LLM processing, persistent browser sessions, and intelligent research pipelines.

The server runs on localhost:8787 by default and communicates via the streamable-http MCP transport.

.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-help
Show help information and exit.

.TP
.B \-\-version
Show version number and exit.

.TP
.B \-\-server
\fIURL\fR
MCP server endpoint (default: http://127.0.0.1:8787/mcp).
Also controlled by environment variable
.B LOOM_SERVER.

.TP
.B \-\-json
Output results as JSON instead of pretty-printed tables.
Useful for piping to other tools.

.TP
.B \-\-pretty
Pretty-print output with colors (default). Can be used to override
.B \-\-json
in scripts.

.TP
.B \-\-quiet
Suppress all output. Exit code indicates success/failure.

.TP
.B \-\-timeout
\fISECONDS\fR
Request timeout in seconds (default: 120). Applies to all tool invocations.

.SH COMMANDS

.SS serve
Start the Loom MCP server.

.B Usage:
loom serve [\-\-host HOST] [\-\-port PORT] [\-\-reload]

.B Options:
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-host
\fIHOST\fR
Server bind address (default: 127.0.0.1).

.TP
.B \-\-port
\fIPORT\fR
Server port (default: 8787).

.TP
.B \-\-reload
Enable auto-reload on code changes. Useful for development.
.RE

.B Examples:
.RS
.TP
# Start server on default port
loom serve

.TP
# Listen on all interfaces
loom serve --host 0.0.0.0 --port 9000

.TP
# Development mode with auto-reload
loom serve --reload
.RE

.SS fetch
Fetch a single URL with adaptive anti-bot strategies.
Automatically escalates from HTTP → stealthy (custom headers) → dynamic (Playwright) on bot detection.

.B Usage:
loom fetch \fIURL\fR [OPTIONS]

.B Options:
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-mode
\fIMODE\fR
Fetch strategy: http, stealthy, or dynamic (default: stealthy).

.TP
.B \-\-return-format
\fIFORMAT\fR
Output format: text, html, json, or screenshot (default: text).

.TP
.B \-\-header
\fIK:V\fR
Custom HTTP header (repeatable). Example: \-\-header "X-API-Key:secret"

.TP
.B \-\-user-agent
\fIUSER_AGENT\fR
Custom User-Agent string.

.TP
.B \-\-proxy
\fIURL\fR
HTTP proxy URL (e.g., http://127.0.0.1:8080).

.TP
.B \-\-cookie
\fIK=V\fR
Cookie pair (repeatable). Example: \-\-cookie "session=abc123"

.TP
.B \-\-accept-language
\fILANG\fR
Accept-Language header (default: en-US,en;q=0.9).

.TP
.B \-\-wait-for
\fISELECTOR\fR
CSS selector to wait for before returning (dynamic mode only).

.TP
.B \-\-session
\fINAME\fR
Persistent browser session name. Create with: loom session open \-\-name NAME

.TP
.B \-\-save
\fIFILE\fR
Save response to file (JSON format).
.RE

.B Examples:
.RS
.TP
# Fetch with default stealthy mode
loom fetch "https://example.com"

.TP
# JavaScript-heavy page with dynamic rendering
loom fetch "https://example.com" --mode dynamic --wait-for "#content"

.TP
# Custom headers and proxy
loom fetch "https://api.example.com/data" \\
  --header "Authorization:Bearer TOKEN" \\
  --proxy "http://127.0.0.1:8080"

.TP
# Save to file as JSON
loom fetch "https://example.com" --json --save result.json

.TP
# Use persistent session (must be created first)
loom fetch "https://example.com" --session my_session
.RE

.SS spider
Bulk fetch multiple URLs from a file with concurrency control and deduplication.

.B Usage:
loom spider \fIURLSFILE\fR [OPTIONS]

.B Options:
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-concurrency
\fIN\fR
Maximum parallel fetches (default: 5).

.TP
.B \-\-mode
\fIMODE\fR
Fetch strategy: http, stealthy, or dynamic (default: stealthy).

.TP
.B \-\-out
\fIDIR\fR
Output directory. If specified, saves each response to a file.

.TP
.B \-\-fail-fast
Stop on first error instead of continuing with remaining URLs.

.TP
.B \-\-dedupe, \-\-no-dedupe
Enable/disable URL deduplication (default: enabled).
.RE

.B Examples:
.RS
.TP
# Create a file with URLs (one per line)
cat > urls.txt << EOF
https://example.com
https://example.org
https://example.net
EOF

.TP
# Fetch all with 10 parallel workers
loom spider urls.txt --concurrency 10

.TP
# Save results to directory
loom spider urls.txt --out ./results --mode dynamic

.TP
# Stop on first error
loom spider urls.txt --fail-fast --concurrency 3
.RE

.SS markdown
Convert a URL to clean, structured markdown with citations and metadata.
Uses Crawl4AI for HTML parsing and Trafilatura as fallback.

.B Usage:
loom markdown \fIURL\fR [OPTIONS]

.B Options:
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-css
\fISELECTOR\fR
CSS selector to extract specific portion of page.

.TP
.B \-\-screenshot
Include screenshot of rendered page.

.TP
.B \-\-session
\fINAME\fR
Persistent browser session name.
.RE

.B Examples:
.RS
.TP
# Convert page to markdown
loom markdown "https://example.com"

.TP
# Extract specific content
loom markdown "https://example.com" --css "article.main-content"

.TP
# Include screenshot
loom markdown "https://example.com" --screenshot
.RE

.SS search
Search across multiple providers (Exa, Tavily, Firecrawl, Brave) with filtering and date ranges.

.B Usage:
loom search \fIQUERY\fR [OPTIONS]

.B Options:
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-provider
\fIPROVIDER\fR
Search provider: exa, tavily, firecrawl, or brave (default: exa).

.TP
.B \-\-n
\fINUM\fR
Number of results to return (default: 10).

.TP
.B \-\-include-domain
\fIDOMAIN\fR
Include only results from domain (repeatable).

.TP
.B \-\-exclude-domain
\fIDOMAIN\fR
Exclude results from domain (repeatable).

.TP
.B \-\-start-date
\fIYYYY-MM-DD\fR
Only results published after this date.

.TP
.B \-\-end-date
\fIYYYY-MM-DD\fR
Only results published before this date.
.RE

.B Examples:
.RS
.TP
# Basic search
loom search "machine learning research"

.TP
# Domain filtering
loom search "pytorch tutorial" \\
  --include-domain arxiv.org \\
  --include-domain github.com

.TP
# Recent news
loom search "AI safety" \\
  --start-date 2026-01-01 \\
  --provider tavily \\
  --n 20
.RE

.SS deep
One-shot deep research pipeline: search → fetch → markdown → extraction.
Automatically detects query intent and selects appropriate search provider.

.B Usage:
loom deep \fIQUERY\fR [OPTIONS]

.B Options:
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-depth
\fIDEPTH\fR
Research depth: 1 (quick), 2 (moderate), 3 (thorough) (default: 2).

.TP
.B \-\-provider
\fIPROVIDER\fR
Override search provider (exa, tavily, firecrawl, brave).
.RE

.B Examples:
.RS
.TP
# Quick research (auto-detects intent)
loom deep "transformer architecture papers"

.TP
# Deep research with multiple sources
loom deep "supply chain resilience" --depth 3

.TP
# Override provider
loom deep "neural networks" --provider tavily --depth 2
.RE

.SS github
Search GitHub repositories, code, or issues with language and owner filtering.

.B Usage:
loom github \fIKIND\fR \fIQUERY\fR [OPTIONS]

.B Kind:
repo, code, or issues.

.B Options:
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-sort
\fIFIELD\fR
Sort by: stars, forks, updated (default: stars).

.TP
.B \-\-order
\fIORDER\fR
asc or desc (default: desc).

.TP
.B \-\-language
\fILANG\fR
Programming language filter (e.g., python, rust, javascript).

.TP
.B \-\-owner
\fIOWNER\fR
Limit to specific owner/organization.

.TP
.B \-\-repo
\fIREPO\fR
Limit to specific repository.

.TP
.B \-\-limit
\fIN\fR
Maximum results (default: 20).
.RE

.B Examples:
.RS
.TP
# Find popular Python projects
loom github repo "machine learning" --language python --limit 30

.TP
# Search code in specific repo
loom github code "async/await" --repo rust-lang/rust

.TP
# Find recent issues
loom github issues "memory leak" --order asc --sort updated
.RE

.SS camoufox
Scrape a URL using Camoufox, a stealth browser based on Firefox with anti-detection features.
Requires: pip install loom-mcp[stealth] && loom install-browsers

.B Usage:
loom camoufox \fIURL\fR [OPTIONS]

.B Options:
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-session
\fINAME\fR
Persistent browser session name.

.TP
.B \-\-screenshot
Capture screenshot of rendered page.
.RE

.B Examples:
.RS
.TP
# Scrape with Camoufox stealth browser
loom camoufox "https://example.com"

.TP
# Include screenshot
loom camoufox "https://example.com" --screenshot
.RE

.SS botasaurus
Scrape a URL using Botasaurus, an anti-bot framework with rotation and captcha-bypass features.
Requires: pip install loom-mcp[stealth] && loom install-browsers

.B Usage:
loom botasaurus \fIURL\fR [OPTIONS]

.B Options:
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-session
\fINAME\fR
Persistent browser session name.
.RE

.B Examples:
.RS
.TP
# Scrape with Botasaurus framework
loom botasaurus "https://example.com"
.RE

.SS session
Manage persistent browser sessions for authenticated or multi-step scraping.

.B Usage:
loom session \fIACTION\fR [\fINAME\fR] [OPTIONS]

.B Actions:
.RS
.TP
.B open
Create new persistent session.

.TP
.B list
Show all active sessions.

.TP
.B close
Terminate a session.
.RE

.B Options:
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-browser
\fIBROWSER\fR
Browser type: camoufox, chromium, or firefox (default: camoufox).

.TP
.B \-\-login-url
\fIURL\fR
Auto-navigate to login URL (manual login).

.TP
.B \-\-login-script
\fIFILE\fR
JavaScript file for automated login.

.TP
.B \-\-ttl
\fISECONDS\fR
Session lifetime in seconds (default: 3600).
.RE

.B Examples:
.RS
.TP
# Create a session
loom session open --name my_session

.TP
# Auto-navigate to login
loom session open --name github_session --login-url "https://github.com/login"

.TP
# List sessions
loom session list

.TP
# Use session in fetch
loom fetch "https://example.com/private" --session my_session

.TP
# Close session
loom session close --name my_session
.RE

.SS config
Get, set, or list configuration values (API keys, cache settings, etc.).

.B Usage:
loom config \fIACTION\fR [\fIKEY\fR] [\fIVALUE\fR]

.B Actions:
.RS
.TP
.B get
[KEY] - Get config value or all config if KEY omitted.

.TP
.B set
KEY VALUE - Set config key to value.

.TP
.B list
Show all configuration keys and values.
.RE

.B Examples:
.RS
.TP
# Get all config
loom config get

.TP
# Get specific value
loom config get EXA_API_KEY

.TP
# Set API key
loom config set EXA_API_KEY "your-api-key-here"

.TP
# List keys
loom config list
.RE

.SS cache
View or manage the response cache (SHA-256 content-hash keyed).

.B Usage:
loom cache \fIACTION\fR [OPTIONS]

.B Actions:
.RS
.TP
.B stats
Show cache statistics (size, entry count, age).

.TP
.B clear
Remove cached entries older than threshold.
.RE

.B Options:
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-older-than-days
\fIDAYS\fR
Age threshold for clearing (default: 30).
.RE

.B Examples:
.RS
.TP
# Show cache stats
loom cache stats

.TP
# Clear old entries
loom cache clear --older-than-days 7
.RE

.SS llm
Call LLM tools for text processing: summarization, extraction, classification, translation, expansion,
question answering, embedding, and chat.

.B Usage:
loom llm \fIACTION\fR [\fITEXT\fR] [OPTIONS]

.B Actions:
.RS
.TP
.B summarize
Summarize input text.

.TP
.B extract
Extract data using JSON schema.

.TP
.B classify
Classify text into labels.

.TP
.B translate
Translate to target language.

.TP
.B expand
Expand query into related queries.

.TP
.B answer
Answer question given sources.

.TP
.B embed
Generate embeddings for text.

.TP
.B chat
Chat with LLM.
.RE

.B Options:
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-file
\fIFILE\fR
Read input from file instead of stdin/argument.

.TP
.B \-\-schema
\fISCHEMA\fR
JSON schema for extraction.

.TP
.B \-\-labels
\fILABELS\fR
Comma-separated labels for classification.

.TP
.B \-\-target-lang
\fILANG\fR
Target language code (default: en).

.TP
.B \-\-n
\fIN\fR
Number of expanded queries (default: 5).

.TP
.B \-\-max-tokens
\fITOKENS\fR
Maximum output tokens (default: 200).
.RE

.B Examples:
.RS
.TP
# Summarize from stdin
echo "Long text..." | loom llm summarize

.TP
# Extract structured data
loom llm extract --file article.txt \\
  --schema '{"properties": {"title": {"type": "string"}}}'

.TP
# Classify text
loom llm classify "Great product!" --labels "positive,negative,neutral"

.TP
# Translate
echo "Bonjour!" | loom llm translate --target-lang en

.TP
# Expand query
loom llm expand "machine learning"
.RE

.SS tools
List all 220+ available MCP tools with filtering and detailed parameter information.

.B Usage:
loom tools [OPTIONS]

.B Options:
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-verbose, -v
Show detailed parameter information for each tool.

.TP
.B \-\-category, -c
\fICATEGORY\fR
Filter tools by category (e.g., llm, search, fetch).

.TP
.B \-\-json
Output as JSON.
.RE

.B Examples:
.RS
.TP
# List all tools
loom tools

.TP
# Show tool details
loom tools --verbose

.TP
# Filter by category
loom tools --category llm

.TP
# JSON output for scripting
loom tools --json --category search
.RE

.SS completions
Manage shell completion installation.

.B Usage:
loom completions \fIACTION\fR

.B Actions:
.RS
.TP
.B install
Install shell completions for bash, zsh, or fish.
Auto-detects shell unless specified.
.RE

.B Examples:
.RS
.TP
# Auto-detect and install
loom completions install

.TP
# Manual install via script
bash completions/install.sh zsh
.RE

.SS version
Show version number and tool count.

.B Usage:
loom version

.B Output:
.RS
Displays: loom version 0.1.0a1, 220+ tools available
.RE

.SS repl
Interactive REPL shell for Loom commands with command history and completions.

.B Usage:
loom repl [OPTIONS]

.B Options:
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-server
\fIURL\fR
MCP server endpoint (default: http://127.0.0.1:8787/mcp).
.RE

.B Features:
.RS
.TP
Command history saved to ~/.loom_history
.TP
Tab completion for commands
.TP
Multi-line input support
.RE

.B Built-in Commands:
.RS
.TP
.B exit, quit
Exit REPL.

.TP
.B help
Show available commands.
.RE

.B Examples:
.RS
.TP
# Start REPL
loom repl

.TP
# In REPL:
loom> fetch https://example.com
loom> search "machine learning"
loom> github repo "pytorch"
loom> tools --category llm
loom> exit
.RE

.SS journey-test
Run comprehensive end-to-end journey test exercising all 23 tools.
Useful for validation after installation or upgrades.

.B Usage:
loom journey-test [OPTIONS]

.B Options:
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-topic
\fITOPIC\fR
Research topic (default: "llama model family").

.TP
.B \-\-live
Run against real network instead of mocked responses.

.TP
.B \-\-record
Record screenshots during journey.

.TP
.B \-\-fixtures
\fIDIR\fR
Fixtures directory for mocked mode.

.TP
.B \-\-out
\fIDIR\fR
Output directory for journey report (default: ./journey-out).

.TP
.B \-\-server
\fIURL\fR
MCP server endpoint.
.RE

.B Examples:
.RS
.TP
# Run mocked journey test
loom journey-test

.TP
# Run against real network
loom journey-test --live --record

.TP
# Custom topic
loom journey-test --topic "Rust programming" --depth 2
.RE

.SS install-browsers
Install Playwright Chromium and Firefox browsers, and Camoufox stealth browser.
Required once after: pip install loom-mcp[stealth]

.B Usage:
loom install-browsers

.B Notes:
.RS
This command runs:
  - playwright install chromium firefox
  - camoufox fetch

Downloads large browser binaries (~500MB total).
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

.TP
.B LOOM_SERVER
MCP server URL (default: http://127.0.0.1:8787/mcp).
Can be overridden with
.B \-\-server
flag.

.TP
.B LOOM_CONFIG_PATH
Path to config.json (default: ./config.json).

.TP
.B LOOM_CACHE_DIR
Cache directory root (default: ~/.cache/loom).

.TP
.B LOOM_SESSIONS_DIR
Sessions directory (default: ~/.loom/sessions).

.TP
.B TOR_ENABLED
Enable Tor network features (default: false).

.TP
.B TOR_SOCKS5_PROXY
Tor SOCKS5 proxy address (default: 127.0.0.1:9050).

.TP
.B GROQ_API_KEY, NVIDIA_NIM_API_KEY, DEEPSEEK_API_KEY, GOOGLE_AI_KEY, MOONSHOT_API_KEY, OPENAI_API_KEY, ANTHROPIC_API_KEY
LLM provider API keys.

.TP
.B EXA_API_KEY, TAVILY_API_KEY, FIRECRAWL_API_KEY, BRAVE_API_KEY
Search provider API keys.

.SH FILES

.TP
.B ~/.loom_history
REPL command history.

.TP
.B ~/.loom/sessions/
Persistent browser session storage.

.TP
.B ~/.cache/loom/
Response cache (organized by date: YYYY-MM-DD/).

.TP
.B config.json
Configuration file in current directory or specified by LOOM_CONFIG_PATH.

.SH EXAMPLES

.SS Basic Research Flow

.RS
.nf
# Start server in background
loom serve &

# Search for topic
loom search "transformer architecture" --n 20

# Fetch full article
loom fetch "https://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03762"

# Convert to markdown
loom markdown "https://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03762" --screenshot

# Extract with LLM
loom llm extract --file article.md \\
  --schema '{"properties": {"authors": {"type": "array"}}}'
.fi
.RE

.SS Bulk Scraping with Sessions

.RS
.nf
# Create authenticated session
loom session open --name github_session \\
  --login-url "https://github.com/login"

# Bulk fetch with session
loom spider urls.txt --session github_session --out ./results

# Monitor cache
loom cache stats

# Cleanup old data
loom cache clear --older-than-days 30
.fi
.RE

.SS Deep Research on Topic

.RS
.nf
# One-shot research pipeline
loom deep "renewable energy breakthroughs" --depth 3

# Expand query variations
loom llm expand "renewable energy breakthroughs" --n 10

# Search each variation
for query in $(loom llm expand "renewable" | jq -r '.[].query'); do
  loom search "$query" --n 5 --json
done
.fi
.RE

.SS Interactive REPL Session

.RS
.nf
loom repl

loom> search "machine learning" --n 10
loom> github repo "transformers" --language python
loom> tools --category fetch
loom> cache stats
loom> exit
.fi
.RE

.SH DIAGNOSTICS

Exit codes:
.RS
.TP
.B 0
Success.

.TP
.B 1
Tool error or network failure.

.TP
.B 2
Invalid arguments or missing required input.

.TP
.B 3
Server connection failed.
.RE

Common issues:
.RS
.TP
.B Server unreachable
Check that
.B loom serve
is running. Verify with: loom --server http://127.0.0.1:8787/mcp tools

.TP
.B Dynamic mode fails
Install browsers: loom install-browsers

.TP
.B API key errors
Verify with: loom config get EXA_API_KEY
Set with: loom config set EXA_API_KEY "your-key"

.TP
.B Cache issues
Clear with: loom cache clear --older-than-days 0
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
MCP Documentation: https://modelcontextprotocol.io/
.TP
Loom GitHub: https://github.com/aadel90/loom
.TP
Typer Documentation: https://typer.tiangolo.com/

.SH AUTHOR
Ahmed Adel Bakr Alderai <ahmedalderai22@gmail.com>

.SH LICENSE
Apache License 2.0
